 On a day of electoral uncertainty and legal action, Joe Biden won Wisconsin on Nov. 4, reclaiming a key part of the “blue wall” that slipped away from Democrats four years ago and narrowing U.S. President Donald Trump’s pathway to reelection.

A full day after Election Day, neither candidate had cleared the 270 Electoral College votes needed to win the White House. Margins remained tight in several fiercely contested states including the Great Lakes battlegrounds of Michigan and Pennsylvania. But Biden’s victory in Wisconsin loomed as an important step to the presidency.

Trump’s campaign requested a recount, in addition to filing lawsuits in Pennsylvania and Michigan. Statewide recounts in Wisconsin have historically changed the vote tally by only a few hundred votes; Biden led by 0.624 percentage point out of nearly 3.3 million ballots counted.

It was unclear when or how quickly a national winner could be determined after a long, bitter campaign dominated by the coronavirus and its effects on Americans and the national economy.

After the victory in Wisconsin, Biden held 248 Electoral College votes, 22 shy of the 270 needed to win the presidency. The former vice president had several possible combinations of outstanding states to win the White House.
A United Nations treaty to ban nuclear weapons takes effect Jan. 22, following confirmation Oct. 24 that Honduras had become the 50th state party to ratify the pact.

While hailed as an important step toward the actual abolition of nuclear weapons, the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons remains strongly opposed by the United States and other nuclear powers. U.S. ally Japan has joined Washington in refusing to ratify the pact.

“This moment has been 75 years coming since the horrific attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and the founding of the U.N., which made nuclear disarmament a cornerstone,” said Beatrice Fihn, executive director of the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons, the 2017 Nobel Peace Prize-winning coalition whose work helped spearhead the nuclear ban treaty. “The 50 countries that ratify this treaty are showing true leadership in setting a new international norm that nuclear weapons are not just immoral but illegal.”

The 50th ratification came on the 75th anniversary of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki at the end of World War II, as well as 75 years to the day of the ratification of the U.N. Charter, which officially established the United Nations. (The Japan Times, AP)
Rafael Nadal demolished Novak Djokovic 6-0, 6-2, 7-5 to win his 13th French Open on Oct. 11 and equal the all-time record of 20 Grand Slam titles held by Roger Federer, who hailed Nadal’s victory as “one of sport’s greatest achievements.”

For world No. 1 Djokovic, the defeat ended his hopes of an 18th Grand Slam and of becoming the first man since Rod Laver in 1969 to win all four majors twice.

Nadal, 34, claimed his 100th match win at Roland Garros against just two defeats since his 2005 debut.

The Spaniard, the oldest champion in Paris since Andres Gimeno in 1972, won the title without dropping a set. He finished the one-sided affair with just 14 unforced errors to his opponent’s 52.

“Congrats to Novak for another great tournament. Sorry for today. We’ve played plenty of times together — one day one wins, another the other,” said Nadal. “After all the things I have been through in my career with injuries, I could not have done it without my family.”

Nadal said he wasn’t thinking about matching Federer’s record.

“It’s been a very tough year. Winning here means everything to me so it’s not about equaling Roger on 20, for me today it’s just a Roland Garros victory,” said Nadal, who had skipped the U.S. Open due to the global health crisis and was playing just his second tournament since February. (AFP-Jiji)
A coronavirus patient himself, U.S. President Donald Trump on Oct. 6 said Americans were learning to live with the pandemic, posting comments online that drew a rebuke from Facebook and Twitter.

A day after leaving the Walter Reed Medical Center for the White House, where he will receive intensive treatments unavailable to most Americans, the 74-year-old Republican again understated the effects of the virus on social media.

“Many people every year, sometimes over 100,000, and despite the Vaccine, die from the Flu. Are we going to close down our Country? No, we have learned to live with it, just like we are learning to live with Covid, in most populations far less lethal!!!” Trump wrote on Twitter and Facebook.

Twitter responded by putting a warning label on the post, saying it included potentially misleading information. Facebook removed the Trump post for breaking its rules on COVID-19 misinformation, according to CNN.

The United States has the world’s highest death toll from the pandemic, with more than 209,000 deaths. By comparison, influenza typically kills between some 22,000 and 64,000 people a year in the United States, U.S. government statistics show.

Trump’s doctor said Oct. 6 he was doing “extremely well” and reporting no COVID-19 symptoms.

Many Trump aides and confidants have been diagnosed with the disease since his announcement Oct. 2 that he had tested positive, intensifying scrutiny and criticism of the administration’s handling of the pandemic. (Reuters)
Chicago Cubs right-hander Yu Darvish became the first Japanese pitcher to lead a major league in wins after his closest competitor in the National League dropped out of contention on Sept. 26.

Darvish collected his eighth win of the season on Sept. 25 after tossing seven shutout innings in the Cubs’ 10-0 win over the Chicago White Sox. Zach Davies of the San Diego Padres and Atlanta Braves lefty Max Fried finished the regular season with seven wins.

“It’s a short season, but coming first in something gives me confidence,” Darvish said after the game.

Darvish is 8-3 with 93 strikeouts and a 2.01 ERA over 12 games in his third season with the Cubs, who clinched their first National League Central title in three years after the second-place St. Louis Cardinals fell 3-0 to the Milwaukee Brewers on Sept. 26.

It is the first time the 34-year-old Darvish has earned the most wins in any league, including the seven seasons he spent in Japan with the Nippon Ham Fighters.

The 2020 Major League Baseball regular season, shortened to 60 games due to the coronavirus pandemic, wrapped up on Sept. 27.

Darvish won seven straight games from July 31 to Sept. 4 and was named National League Pitcher of the Month for July and August. He is currently second in the league in ERA and tied for third in strikeouts.

He is also the first Japanese pitcher to be a leading candidate for the Cy Young Award, which recognizes the MLB’s best pitchers. (Kyodo)
Refugees from the Tigray region of Ethiopia wait to register at the UNCHR center at Hamdayet, Sudan, Nov. 14, 2020. Ethiopia’s defiant Tigray regional government has fired rockets at two airports in the neighboring Amhara region.
Three rockets were fired Saturday at the Eritrean capital, Asmara, diplomats said, hours after the leaders of Ethiopia’s Tigray region warned it might attack.

The rockets appeared to be aimed at the capital’s airport. Information about damage or deaths was not available, and Tigray regional officials did not respond to requests for comment.

On Tuesday, Debretsion Gebremichael, the leader of the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF), accused Eritrea of sending troops across the border in support of Ethiopian government forces, which Eritrea's Foreign Minister Osman Saleh Mohammed denied, telling Reuters: "We are not part of the conflict."

Eritrea has long been at odds with the TPLF, experts said, and they fear it could be drawn into the conflict between the TPLF and Ethiopia’s federal government.

Airports targeted

Late Friday, Tigray fired rockets at two airports in the nearby Amhara region, the Ethiopian and Tigray regional governments said.

In a statement on Tigray TV, the Tigray regional government said attacks would continue “unless the attacks against us stop.”

The federal government confirmed the attacks, saying in a statement, “A rocket was fired towards Bahir Dar & Gondar cities. As a result, the airport areas have sustained damages.”
The Ethiopian army has been battling local forces in the neighboring northern Tigray region for more than a week. Hundreds have been killed since Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed sent the national defense force into Tigray November 4, after accusing local forces there of attacking a military base.

More than 14,500 Ethiopians have fled to Sudan, and the U.N. refugee agency says more people are on their way.

On Friday, U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet expressed alarm at the rapidly deteriorating situation in Tigray.

Her spokesman, Rupert Colville, said Bachelet was particularly disturbed by an Amnesty International report of alleged mass killings in the town of Mai-Kadra in southwest Tigray.

Grisly deaths

Amnesty said photographs and videos of the scene indicated hundreds of people had been stabbed or hacked to death. It said the victims appeared to have been day laborers, who were not involved in military operations.

The Tigray People’s Liberation Front denied that scores or hundreds of people had been “hacked to death” in Mai-Kadra.

Colville said the high commissioner was fearful of the consequences if Tigray and Ethiopia failed to heed her warning.

If fighting continues, he said, Bachelet feared the conflict could easily spill across borders, potentially destabilizing parts of East Africa.

Lisa Schlein contributed reporting from Geneva.
ISTANBUL - Could a new president in the United States mean fresh relations between Middle Eastern countries and the U.S.?

Some locals say change may bring hope to the region, others say that change might not be good.

But almost everyone VOA spoke with in recent days said that after decades of frustration with U.S. policy, they are rooting for new policies in America, not individual leaders.

“I’m happy with whoever is better for Egypt,” said Abdulrahman Abdelfattah, 28, a SCUBA dive guide in an Egyptian resort town several days after the election. “We have tried [U.S. President Donald] Trump, but we haven’t tried [President-elect] Joe Biden yet. We will find out who is better.”
What is good for the Middle East?

Christopher Ibrahim, a 32-year-old jazz musician in Beirut, Lebanon, was happy with the results of the U.S. elections. His mother is Armenian from Syria and his father is Palestinian. He spent his childhood in New Jersey in the U.S.

Ibrahim voted for Biden, mostly because he says Trump has support from white supremacist groups. He said he thinks Biden is the right choice for America, but, he added, maybe not for the Middle East.

“Ironically, I think that Trump’s policies in the long run would somehow be better [for the Middle East],” he said. “Because they were sort of forcing everyone to take steps…towards each other.”

Ibrahim was referring to the Trump-brokered normalization of relations between Israel and the United Arab Emirates, Sudan and Bahrain. It was an achievement lauded by some and blasted by others. It also was a significant change in a situation that has been deadlocked for decades.
Humanitarian hopes

In Yemen, the Trump administration has supported Saudi Arabia-led attacks on the Houthis, a militant group that took over much of the country in 2014 and 2015, now formally known as Ansar Allah. The Trump Administration says U.S. support for Saudi Arabia tempers civilian destruction, a point disputed by many in the U.S., including Biden.

Mohamad Salah, a 47-year-old English teacher in the capital, Sana’a, said he was surprised by the U.S. election results, but also hopeful.

Yemen has become the world’s worst humanitarian crisis over the past few years, and to him, it doesn’t appear that U.S. policy has done anything to stop it. Millions of people are starving and more than 100,000 are dead from a war that has also brought on a barrage of diseases and poverty, setting the country’s economy back decades, according to the United Nations.

Salah wondered out loud if a new U.S. president could stop the war, allowing more international aid to come in. He concluded that even after all of this suffering, he still hopes so.

“I think Biden might change lives in Yemen, if he wants to,” said Salah. “If he knows how hard and terrible the situation is, he might do something.”
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said Aug. 28 he will resign due to a flare-up of his chronic intestinal disease, ending his nearly eight-year stint as Japan’s longest-serving leader. The announcement comes in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, leaving many of Abe’s political ambitions unrealized.

Abe, who just four days earlier had set a record of staying in power for 2,799 consecutive days, will leave office without achieving his long-cherished goal of amending the pacifist Constitution or welcoming the Tokyo Olympics while still the country’s leader.

“As I am no longer in a condition to respond confidently to the mandate of the people, I have decided I should not stay in the prime minister’s post,” Abe, 65, said at a televised news conference.

The abrupt announcement came amid falling public support for his Cabinet, as many perceived his government was dealing poorly with issues stemming from the spread of the virus.

His Liberal Democratic Party is considering holding a leadership election around Sept. 15, according to senior party lawmakers.

Abe said he had been able to keep the illness, ulcerative colitis, which led to his first resignation as premier in 2007, under control for most of his tenure, but he started to feel fatigue from mid-July and was diagnosed with a relapse earlier in August. (Kyodo)
Workers heckled and jeered Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko when he visited a factory on Aug. 17, while strikes grew across the country, raising pressure on the authoritarian leader to step down after 26 years in power.

On the ninth straight day of mass protests over the official results of the Aug. 9 presidential election that demonstrators say was rigged, Lukashenko flew by helicopter to a factory in the capital of Minsk to rally support, but he was met by angry workers chanting, “Go away!”

He told the workers: “I will never cave in to pressure.”

Lukashenko said the country could have a new presidential election, but only after approving an amended version of its constitution in a nationwide referendum — an apparent bid to buy some time amid the growing political crisis.

The proposal didn’t assuage thousands of protesters who again gathered at the capital’s main Independence Square to continue pushing for Lukashenko to step down.

“We don’t want any new constitutions or referendums. We want Lukashenko’s resignation,” said 45-year-old factory worker Dmitry Averkin.

Lukashenko told the factory workers that those who intend to strike could leave if they want, but he added that the protests are ruining the economy and said the country would collapse if he stepped down.
A day after Agnes Chow was arrested late on Aug. 10 under China’s new national security law, Hong Kong police released the prominent pro-democracy activist on bail.

Chow was arrested for “inciting secession” under the national security law, according to her verified Facebook account. Chow told reporters after her release that her passport had been seized.

She was among 10 people arrested on Aug. 10 in a national security investigation. The operation saw media mogul Jimmy Lai, 71, and other senior executives at his Apple Daily newspaper detained. Police said they arrested nine men and one woman, aged between 23 and 72. Lai was released on bail shortly after Chow’s release.

It was the latest and highest-profile police operation against dissidents under the sweeping new law and sparked a fresh round of condemnation over the territory’s stuttering freedoms.

Chow, who speaks fluent Japanese and is popular in Japan, was among a group of pro-democracy activists who earlier this year urged Tokyo to rethink a planned visit to the country by Chinese President Xi Jinping. The visit was originally set for March and has been delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic.
A day after Agnes Chow was arrested late on Aug. 10 under China’s new national security law, Hong Kong police released the prominent pro-democracy activist on bail.

Chow was arrested for “inciting secession” under the national security law, according to her verified Facebook account. Chow told reporters after her release that her passport had been seized.

She was among 10 people arrested on Aug. 10 in a national security investigation. The operation saw media mogul Jimmy Lai, 71, and other senior executives at his Apple Daily newspaper detained. Police said they arrested nine men and one woman, aged between 23 and 72. Lai was released on bail shortly after Chow’s release.

It was the latest and highest-profile police operation against dissidents under the sweeping new law and sparked a fresh round of condemnation over the territory’s stuttering freedoms.

Chow, who speaks fluent Japanese and is popular in Japan, was among a group of pro-democracy activists who earlier this year urged Tokyo to rethink a planned visit to the country by Chinese President Xi Jinping. The visit was originally set for March and has been delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic. (AFP-Jiji, Reuters, The Japan Times)
The government said July 19 it will cover cancellation fees incurred by Tokyoites and those who planned to travel to the capital after Tokyo was excluded at the last minute from a domestic tourism promotion campaign to help coronavirus pandemic-hit regions.

The “Go To Travel” campaign, which kicked off July 22, was plunged into disarray after the government said July 17 that trips to and from Tokyo will not be covered by the scheme because of a surge in infections in the capital.

The program subsidizes up to half of all travel expenses, including accommodation and transport costs.

Tourism minister Kazuyoshi Aka­ba said the government will cover the cancellation fees for trips to and from Tokyo reserved between July 10 and 17, the day he said the capital would be excluded.

The move came amid growing public anger after Akaba also said that the government had no plans to cover the losses.

Hotel and shop operators at popular tourist sites complained of confusion surrounding the campaign, which has seen a slew of changes since its formal announcement on July 10, as well as concern about a spread of infections.

The ¥1.35 trillion travel campaign was initially slated to begin in August but was brought forward to start ahead of the four-day holiday weekend beginning July 23.
The president of Turkey on July 10 formally converted Istanbul’s sixth-century Hagia Sophia back into a mosque and declared it open for Muslim worship, hours after a high court annulled a 1934 decision that had made the religious landmark a museum.

The decision sparked deep dismay among Orthodox Christians. Originally a cathedral, Hagia Sophia was turned into a mosque after Istanbul’s conquest by the Ottoman Empire but had been a museum for the last 86 years, drawing millions of tourists annually.

There was jubilation outside the terracotta-hued structure with its domes and four minarets. Dozens of people chanted “Allah is great!” after news of the court ruling broke.

In the capital of Ankara, legislators stood and applauded as the decision was read in Parliament.

Turkey’s high administrative court threw its weight behind a petition brought by a religious group and annulled the 1934 Cabinet decision. Within hours, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan signed a decree handing over Hagia Sophia to Turkey’s Religious Affairs Presidency.

In a televised address, Erdogan said the first prayers inside Hagia Sofia would be held on July 24, and he urged respect for the decision.

The move has drawn international criticism and concern, including from Greece, the United States and Russia, as well as UNESCO and Pope Francis. (AP, Reuters)
Tokyo Gov. Yuriko Koike cruised to a resounding victory in the gubernatorial election July 5, securing a second term and marking the end of a predictable campaign held during unpredictable times.

The incumbent, who turns 68 on July 15, was pitted against a slew of lesser-known candidates in a campaign overshadowed by the unnerving presence of a pandemic.

Koike’s vote total of 3,661,371 was more than four times higher than that of her closest challenger, a sign that a majority of voters in Tokyo trust her to continue the battle against the novel coronavirus. Kenji Utsunomiya, a 73-year-old lawyer and former head of the Japan Federation of Bar Associations, won only 844,151 votes. Taro Yamamoto, 45, an actor-turned-leader of anti-establishment party Reiwa Shinsengumi, finished third with 657,277 votes.

Election turnout was 55%, down from 59% in the 2016 poll.

Koike said she aims to focus her efforts on preventing and preparing for a possible second wave of the novel coronavirus by enhancing testing capacity, increasing the number of hospital beds and bolstering the city’s health care system.

She also said she aims to establish Tokyo’s own center for disease control, akin to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in the U.S., to consolidate the city’s response to the virus and stage a “simplified” Olympics next year. (The Japan Times)
